%% Open-source code and freely available platform.  Blogs.  Workshops
%% and/or papers at SIGCSE, ICFP, other relevant conferences.
This project will produce four types of deliverables: the source code
of the \thelang{} environment, course curriculum, study results, and
various tutorials.  All source code from this project will be open
source and initially hosted publicly on the
Github\footnote{\url{http://www.github.com}} source code repository
website, but ultimately hosted on
Hackage\footnote{\url{http://www.hackage.haskell.org}} which is the
Haskell communities central repository of open source Haskell
software.

The \thelang{}'s design, the course curriculum, and the study results
will be disseminated through academic conferences, workshops, and
journals.  Potential venues are Special Interest Group on Computer
Science Education (SIGCSE), the ACM SIGPLAN International Conference
on Functional Programming (ICFP), the workshop on Trends in Functional
Programming in Education (TFPiE), and the Journal of Functional
Programming.

Informal tutorials will be constructed outlining how to put the
results of this project into practice for faculty teaching discrete
mathematics.  These tutorials will be disseminated through the PI's
blogs, and/or through hosted workshops at computer science conferences
or the PI's universities.
